This week on the podcast, wow, another
great conversation. Lawrence Calcano
really has built iCapital since 2013
into what's [music] become the dominant
financial technology platform for
alternative investments, for wealth
managers, for advisors, for banks.
I found this informative and really
quite interesting and I think you will
also. With no further ado, my discussion
with iCapital CEO Lawrence Calcano.
>> [music]
>> Lawrence Calcano, welcome to Bloomberg.
Thanks, Barry. It's great to be here.
>> It's It's great to have you. I've been
looking forward to this for a while.
Before we get into your time with
iCapital, I want to sort of work back
through your career starting with you
get a bachelor's from Holy Cross and an
MBA from Dartmouth. Talk. What was the
original career plan?
Boy, I I don't know that I had one
coming out of the gate. My you know, my
dad was raised in an orphanage. His dad
had died when he was two.
And and so he was in an orphanage
orphanage till he was 18. He went into
the army and then he came out and he had
to sort of put himself through school
and so
he didn't have a regular sort of path
that would sort of lead him to say to me
as a as a teenager here's the way to do
it, you know. And so we were he was
learning and I was learning a little
bit. I was a hockey player and I did get
recruited to Holy Cross to play hockey.
Um and when I was there I was an
economics major and a theater minor.
Spent a lot of time doing theater there
as well.
Um and then I went off to Morgan Stanley
and
that was a really interesting decision
because I was in a professional play and
had sort of been asked to be in a second
play. And I had a little bit of a a
career crisis, if you will, early on in
terms of
>> was the first play? Uh it was called The
Murder Room. So, James Sharkey slapstick
uh play, and I played a young Texas
millionaire who was engaged to a wealthy
British woman, and we were the play
takes place at her father's manor in in
the UK. It was a full of sight gags and
jokes and so forth. On Broadway or off
Broadway?
>> Off Broadway.
>> Yeah. Um anyway, it was a it was a lot
of fun. I was uh offered a role as Peter
in The Diary of Anne Frank as a
follow-up. And [snorts] I had also at
that point gotten an offer to go to
Morgan Stanley. And and I was sort of in
an early trade-off mode, and um
ultimately figured I needed to eat. I
had a lot of student loans.
Um and I decided to go off into the
world of finance. So, you spent a few
years at Morgan Stanley. What were you
focused on while you were there? I was
at mortgage finance. Mhm. So, we were
both helping S&Ls to raise capital, do
M&A, and also structuring some new
products like uh you know, some of the
Ginnie Mae securities, Fannie Mae
securities, REMICs, CMOs, things like
that. A lot of the structured type
investments.
This is uh late '80s, early '90s?
>> late '80s. Yeah, '80s '85 to '88.
Um and then I put in one application to
business school.
Um a good friend of mine who had was an
analyst before me left and went off to
Tuck.
I visited him. Um I had an offer to stay
on it at Morgan as a as an associate.
Um but decided that after my weekend at
Tuck, that would be uh
a good thing for me to kind of stop,
reassess, figure out what I wanted to
do, and I and I went off to Tuck.
>> So, so I have to ask this obvious
question. There's a whole industry
helping students figure out which is the
right schools for them, their first
school, their safety schools, their
reach school. It's a whole side
industry. You applied to one MBA school.
>> I applied to one MBA school. And part of
the reason for that is I had accepted
the job to become an associate
>> [snorts]
>> and I went off to to the visit as I
mentioned
and I just had this sort of feeling like
I was making the wrong decision. Mhm.
I I just staying was the
I loved Morgan Stanley. It was a
fantastic firm, but I just had this sort
of sense that maybe that wasn't sort of
the right thing to do and going off to
business school for 2 years would be the
right decision. Uh-huh. And I loved it.
I mean it was a an incredible 2 years.
I'm on the board of Tuck. But okay, but
why just apply to one school? If you're
deciding, "Hey, this path isn't exactly
how I want to get a MBA."
>> [snorts]
>> Uh
if you're applying at Dartmouth, you
could apply to Stern, to Columbia, to
wherever. Yeah. Why only one school? You
know, I just was sort [snorts] of
wrapped with it. You know, I went up
there. It's a small school. When I was
there, there were 160 or so in the
class. Uh is very focused on team, you
know, study groups and teamwork and so
forth.
And I I it's hard to say. I just felt
really like it was the right place for
me. And you know, I I wasn't too worried
about it. If I didn't get in, I I was
going to become an associate at Morgan
Stanley. So, it wasn't like I had, you
know, it was putting all your eggs in
one basket, so to speak. Huh, really
really interesting. How did you end up
at Goldman Sachs? Was that at while you
were in business school or afterwards?
>> Yeah, so when I went to business school,
I sort of said to myself, "I'm going to
think about all the different things
that I can do." And after about, you
know, 2 months, I said to myself, "You
know what? I really did like finance a
lot and I want to go back there."
Um and uh so I applied for summer
internships and had a few offers.
>> More
internships and and and
obviously coming out of Morgan Stanley
was pretty helpful to my candidacy.
Uh ended up getting an offer to be a
summer associate at Goldman, which I
took
and uh was fortunate and pleased to have
an offer to come back on post
graduation, which I did and spent
obviously a long time there and and you
know, had a very very good experience
there. So, I'm really curious. Um
they're such large and yet such
different firms.
Uh what was the culture differences
like? What what did you learn from each?
Yeah, so so they are different and and
both by the way, you know, there are a
lot of different ways to skin the cat,
right? You know,
Goldman had a a very team-oriented
culture and I and I think Morgan Stanley
does too, but but Goldman it's sort of
right there in front of you, you know,
they they've got 14 business principles,
the first of which is our clients come
first. By the way, you think about what
are the things you learn early on in
your career.
There were several things from that
experience that really stuck with me
starting with business principle number
one, your clients' interests always come
first and then secondly, broadly just
the importance of working as a team.
Mhm. And I you know, my my wife used to
make fun of me because I would be in the
office early and if there were a party
or some social event, I was always the
last to leave and she would say to me,
"Dude, you don't have to actually be
there till the end." And but it was just
I was I just I loved it so much
um and it you know, I just thought that
camaraderie was so it was powerful, you
know, smart from a business perspective,
but mostly as a person it was just fun.
I mean, it was really fun being in that
group of folks. So, you end up
co-leading Goldman's global technology
banking group, um was your focus on tech
and financial technology uh deliberate
or that just evolve organically over
time?
>> evolved. I I was a generalist in
corporate finance, it was then called
global finance actually.
And uh my Morgan Stanley friends used to
make fun of me and call it intergalactic
finance.
Um but it was global finance and I did
that as a generalist for a couple years
and then I was asked to to start the
East Coast Tech Group, uh which I did.
This is mid to late '90s?
>> This is early '90s. I was a third-year
associate.
>> Mhm. Um and I did it, and it was great.
It was sort of night late '92 early '93.
And [snorts]
you know, we started to win some
business, and it as you recall, the
internet started to really kick in with
Netscape's IPO in '95.
Um and we went from having a really good
business to being on fire and drinking,
you know, from a fire hose, given all
that was going on with the internet.
Huh. Really really fascinating. So so
you're there right through the dot-com
boom and bust. Probably the most
transformative technology of the last 30
years, at least before AI. Um what did
that teach you about how capital markets
operate, the way investors behave? That
had to be a wildly instructive era. It
it was wildly instructive. Um and you
know, it was all go it was all happening
so quickly, and as you recall, people
were trying to figure out how to even
value these companies, you know? But
there was one thing we used to we had a
great team of folks, the research team,
the sales people, the bankers. We all
worked really well together. And we
would go out, and we'd sort of make
presentations to potential clients, and
we'd always talk about where we saw the
market going.
Um
apart from valuation. So what did we
think the adoption was going to look
like? And we had these what what then
was viewed as wild assumptions about
internet adoption.
You know, at the time people were afraid
to put their card numbers in a computer,
you know, for to buy anything, right? Um
but what what happened was for a while
technology the valuations
sort of
kept pace and at times exceeded the the
sort of hysteria, if you will. But, even
though the valuations came back at the
end of sort of mid-01, the the internet
valuations came down, mid-02 the comtech
valuations came down.
Um the reality of what was happening
was even wilder, if you will, than what
our projections suggested. I.e., the
adoption rate of the internet and how it
would fundamentally change people's
lives, the way they bought things, the
way they reviewed things, where they
communicated with each other. It was so
powerful. And, [snorts] you know, we we
saw that wave, you saw the
communications equipment wave. Now,
we're obviously looking at a different
wave. And and [snorts] for me, there are
several like massive lessons there. One
of which is you're never safe.
When I started, the big technology
companies were called Deck and Wang. You
remember those companies?
>> Oh, sure. Yeah. Probably most of your
>> Wang uh computers uh not not Wang who
owned Computer Associates. Wang
Computers.
>> Wang Computers. Not Charles Wang, who
was CEO of that. So, those companies all
got replaced, you know, first by client
server.
Then a lot of the client server
companies got displaced with the
internet. Um and now you're seeing
another interesting potential risk of
displacement. And and I think one of the
big things is you cannot be afraid of
new changes in technology waves. You've
got to adopt it. You can't By the way,
some some companies If you remember back
when when Amazon was growing and
you know, many of the borders, the
bookstores, the music stores, etc.
Y- you know, hope is not a strategy,
right? You can't hope this is going to
go away. You've got to adopt it, even if
it means you've got to change your
business. Even if it means your your
business model has got to sort of change
and and and maybe your margins aren't
going to be the same as what they were.
You've got to adopt to new technology.
Now, the The thing I would say is this
always takes a little longer than people
think. You know, it's not like you snap
your fingers. The the the hype is always
ahead of the reality. I think there's a
little of that right now.
Um but AI is is a massively important
trend. Uh we're spending a lot of money
on it. Uh as are lots of companies.
Um but I think you've got to be willing
to sort of adopt or run the risk of of
dying. You know,
if if there's any lesson to be drawn
from Elon Musk and Tesla,
it's either or or maybe the lesson comes
from uh Amazon and Jeff Bezos, that you
your margin is my opportunity. And if
you don't pivot hard,
they're going to come along and eat your
lunch. Ev- It It happens so regularly.
Yeah. The the cycle never stops. Never
stops turning. Um so so at what point
did you decide, "Hey, I could do a lot
with this technology and various
platforms." What led you to move from
Goldman to uh helping to build and lead
iCapital?
>> Well, the the the real story is I left
in '0 '07. Mhm. And with one of my
former partners, we were going to start
a technology buyout fund. Um you may
remember there were some events in '07
and '08 that were not too pleasant.
>> Don't don't really recall. Everything's
kind of blurred. Oh, that.
>> Yeah, it reminds me of the Leslie
Nielsen joke in Airplane, "I picked a
bad month to stop sniffing glue." Uh
>> [laughter]
>> so there was a little of that. We We
went off to start a private equity fund
in the middle of the GFC.
Um So you should have started a
distressed asset fund.
>> probably. We weren't smart enough to
figure that out. But we uh so anyway, so
we put that on pause and um you know,
actually it was a little bit of an
unplanned cleansing in the sense that I
coached my kids football teams and
lacrosse teams and [snorts] you know, I
worked kind of from home and
um and it was it was actually very
exciting. Did a few entrepreneurial
things.
Um but then with with a great group of
folks, uh um, we looked at what was
happening in the independent space. You
you uh space you obviously know quite
well.
And we saw
a lot of firms, a lot of advisors sort
of going off and starting their own
firms. And and that trend was
significant. There were, you know,
hundreds of billions or early trillions
of dollars that were now being managed
by these independent RIAs. And one of
the things that we we looked at was
almost by definition the biggest firm
the firms who were leaving were the
firms with the largest asset bases and
generally speaking the largest clients.
And those clients typically invested in
alts.
And so as we thought about it, we
thought
>> Meaning like family offices, ultra-high
net worth.
>> Yeah, like think about some of your
clients and and what types of products
are they're interested in buying. So
when you leave the the wirehouses did a
phenomenal job and still do of providing
outstanding products, support, services.
They do a great job. And so when
somebody leaves to be independent, they
don't have a platform. So we felt like
we could create a platform to help
advisors have access to alts in the
right way. And and it's different
because at that moment in time there was
no technology.
Investing in alts was a highly manual
process.
And uh to a large degree it for a lot of
firms it still is. It doesn't seem like
the various funds all play well
together. Yeah, I I think I think
there's a big and we'll come back to
this experience point, but we felt like
firms that were independent really
needed a technology chassis. They needed
access to product. They needed
education, diligence, and they needed a
technology platform. We felt like we
could build that, you know, end-to-end,
not just the diligence or not just, you
know, fund sales or whatever. It was the
whole end-to-end solution.
Um and we started to build that out and
we realized that, you know, it was
something that clients really needed.
The other really interesting thing that
we found out along the way and I would
say this was not a pivot as much as an
expansion.
We had assumed that the wirehouses had
absolutely everything they need because
they knew every manager in the world,
they had close relationships. Um what
they didn't really have at the time was
much technology. They had a lot of
people who were doing a great job
serving advisors, but they didn't have
technology. And so we felt like we could
offer them a full technology platform.
And and we basically sort of rethought
our role, if you will, in the ecosystem
to be one where, you know, we were going
to serve advisors. Wherever and however
they choose to however they chose to
practice, we wanted to be able to serve
them end-to-end. And that's allowed us,
I think, to be able to serve advisors at
the wirehouses, advisors who are RIAs or
at IBDs,
um and and really help create a great
experience for them and for their
clients. Huh. Really really fascinating.
How should a traditional 60/40 investor
thinking about uh some allocation to
private equity or private credit, how do
they access your platform? Is it
directly through uh their advisor? Tell
us what the process is like.
>> Yeah, it's really it's very much an
advisor business. We are very focused on
helping financial advisors serve their
clients.
It's not a B2C model. It's it's it's a
B2B2C model. And so really all the
clients at iCapital are advisors, you
know, and or obviously the GPs that are
trying to reach those advisors. And so
for financial advisors, um if they're
large, we can build a whole white label
capability for them, so they can in
effect have an operating system to run
their alts structured investments or
annuities business as well as the data
aggregation that they they have to do
for clients with with information that's
everywhere.
For for advisors that are maybe a little
smaller, that don't have sort of a
persistent need, um they can come to our
marketplace and see a menu of hundreds
of funds where they can avail themselves
of those funds for their clients.
>> Huh, really really interesting. So, I
like the description
of iCapital as the world's alternative
investment marketplace for advisors and
and wealth managers. When when you
joined in 2013, what problem were you
trying to solve? Yeah, we were trying to
help the advisors who had left as I
mentioned um left their their uh their
homes to start off their new businesses
and we felt like we could actually
create for them an investment platform
to allow them to be able to service
their clients, you know, consistent with
how they had previously served them.
So,
the part of the problem we've seen with
alternatives over the years, they all
seem to be a slightly different widget,
they don't all fit on a platform easily,
especially you have to onboard the
assets and and align the capital with
it. You have to go through subscription
documents and capital calls and uh
custodian and performance reporting and
then all the analytics. I I
They all seem to be a little different
and it's a big lift. How have you
addressed this issue at iCapital? So, we
think technology's essential to actually
creating an experience that allows you
to deal with all of those things
uh effectively and in a way that will be
encouraging to you to do the business
with your clients where it makes sense.
So, everything from
what happens before you make any
decisions, education maybe you as an
advisor on the asset class. Uh maybe
education for your client. Um the tools
to help you build a portfolio, research
to help you learn about funds. Um and
then once you've worked with a client
and develop a portfolio perspective,
tools to help you subscribe. And then
automation to help you manage all the
things that happen post investment.
Capital calls, distribution,
redemptions, transfers, reporting, etc.
Um and and help create an experience
that as an advisor will give you time
back
to serve the client and spend time with
the client. Um we feel very strongly
about going through advisors cuz we feel
like, you know, there's so much about a
client that an advisor will know that a
platform will never really be able to
know. You know, what is their real
feeling towards illiquidity? You know, I
think one of the issues the industry is
dealing with today is is the question of
illiquidity and and people's
expectations about that. Advisors have a
better perspective and a deeper
perspective on how a client really feels
about that. So we want to make sure
we're partnered with advisors
uh in in bringing the solution to the
market.
>> I'm glad you brought that up because
every time there's some issue with
illiquidity,
um it seems that people don't seem to
really
understand what a lockup means. It
should be fairly self-explanatory. We
saw this a couple of years ago with
BREIT where which part of 7-year lockup
was confusing to you? It's always And I
know what happened in 2022, the Fed
raised rates and people thought, "Hey,
let's get out of illiquid real estate
before the marks reflect the reality of
of pricing relative to rates." Um but
that's not how private investments work.
How How do you educate
investors and their advisors as to what
illiquidity means? So look, I think it's
a it is a journey. It's not There's no
one answer to that question. And by the
way,
we do we spend a ton of time and energy
on education and as do most of the GPs
in our system. When you when you look at
the documents around some of these
funds, it isn't
on page 98 in small print. The the sort
of liquidity rules, if you will, are on
the front page, right? So it it's you
know, I I I think the reality is
people want to hear what they want to
hear. Right. The these are
illiquid securities, whether illiquid
investments. Whether they're wrapped as
a as a 3C7 private fund, which are
clearly illiquid, or they're wrapped in
an evergreen wrapper, you know,
registered fund, the underlying
investments are still illiquid. Now,
some are are are shorter duration than
others. Private credit is shorter
duration than private equity or real
estate, but the fact is that private
credit investment is still an illiquid
investment. The problem, I think, is you
what when they get wrapped in
a wrapper that says you can sell up to
or redeem up to 5%. That confuses
people.
It confuses people and I think when the
industry uses terms like semi-liquid,
it's really I don't even know what that
means, semi-liquid. I always I always
think of that 5%
gate as a widows and orphans clause. If
somebody is suddenly no longer a
suitable investor for this due to the
person who made the investment passed
away,
um now the wife and kids can get out of
it. It shouldn't be, "Oh, I could sell
5% a quarter for as long as I want."
People should buy these make these
investments because they think they're
going to provide, you know,
medium-to-long-term
positive impact in their portfolio. If
you're buying it to get return this
quarter or next quarter, it's probably
not the right investment. You're a I'm
not a financial advisor, but but you
need to buy these things with the right
duration in your mind, and that's not a
short one.
Um the the products do provide what I
think of as liquidity features,
opportunities if things change in your
life to potentially
either redeem all of it if there's not a
big queue, or redeem up to 5% if you
need to. Um I think that's a a
flexibility and a liquidity feature in
the wrapper, but it doesn't mean that
the product is is liquid. And and people
should invest thinking that these
products are going to solve an
investment need they have that's medium
to long-term, not short-term. So so
let's talk a little bit about the demand
for this product. We've seen, at least
on the institutional side, flows into
alts now exceeding a trillion dollars a
year. Um as that scales, what do you
think are some of the challenges and
bottlenecks for advisors
um to allocate more to privates?
>> So I think education is is still a very
important issue for advisors. And if you
think about where we are, a lot of the
the uh advisors in the mix have been
doing it for a while.
There are still a lot of advisors who
haven't really gotten into these
products yet. And so they're going to
need more education, point one. Point
two, how they invest is probably going
to be different. So for example, a lot
of advisors use models with respect to
their liquid portfolios.
We believe that that models will be a
very important way in which people
invest in alternatives. And that might
mean models of just alternatives that
get married to an otherwise liquid
portfolio, or models that include both
liquid and illiquid investments
together. Um we have brought both those
types of products in partnerships with
some managers into the market as well as
partnerships with the the infrastructure
players. But I think models will
represent an important way in which
advisors allocate client assets to
alternatives. So I've been hearing more
and more about interest overseas
in in a global alternative platform.
What do you think is driving the demand
internationally versus what's driving
the demand here is the same thing or is
it a sort of different approach?
>> I think it's the same thing. There you
know the the the adoption's a little bit
behind the US adoption. On our platform,
you know, in the old space we have over
65 billion dollars of alternatives
allocated from investors who live
outside of the United States.
We half of our 20 offices are outside
the United States. We think it's a
really important growth area for the
market and and our business. But I think
a lot of the same things that drive
advisors to introduce these products to
clients, potential for incremental
return, portfolio diversification, etc.
are the same types of things that drive
international interest as well. So so
let's talk a little bit about end-to-end
technology. I know this is more than
just a menu of alternative funds. Tell
us a little bit about your your whole
tech stack and what it provides for any
of your clients. So I think a lot of you
know a lot of what people want help with
out of the gate is is just how do you
build these portfolios? You know, we
talked about education. But but how do
you build a portfolio? How do you
construct portfolios that help match
what an advisor's what a client's goals
and objectives are? So we've built
technology to do that which include all
structured investments, annuities along
with all the liquid products that they
might need. And then the the the
ability, you know, one of the things
we've tried to do as an organization is
not only build an end-to-end solution
out for alts, but do the same thing for
structured investments cuz those are
important products for for advisors and
clients, as well as annuities and
insurance. And what's happening in the
market today, which I think is a really
interesting and ongoing trend, is people
are are are sort of looking at the
different types of wrappers,
uh they could be ETF wrappers, insurance
wrappers, etc., you know,
wrapped around things like hedge funds
or private equity funds, credit funds,
etc. And so, being able to help advisors
think about how the products should be
structured, how how could they address
client needs is a really important part
of what we're doing. Uh and then as I
mentioned earlier, just being able to
automate the whole workflow is really
critical. I'll make one other point as
it relates to tech, and that is I I
think one of the issues for the industry
is is around data management. Um when
you think about we live in an ecosystem.
When we first started the company,
people used to say to me, "Oh, you guys
are so disruptive." And I would always
sort of very politely correct them and
say, "We're not trying to be disruptive.
We're trying to be enabling." You know,
there are a lot of infrastructure
players out there that we're trying to
help sort of achieve their goals. We're
not trying to, like Amazon did to
Borders, we're not trying to push them
out of business. We're trying to enable
them to participate. And I think one of
the things that has to happen now in the
industry is all the different big
constituents have to work together to
help support clients. That means
administrators, transfer agents,
custodians,
firms like iCapital, advisors, GPs, we
all work together. And I think if we can
get all of our systems to be better
connected, things like tokenization and
blockchain will help with that. Um it'll
end up paying huge dividends for the
advisor and for for end client. So, it's
funny, you you mentioned disruptive in
2013,
there was nothing to disrupt. It was
just a series of private offerings and
nothing really uh no umbrella, no
platform that really pulled everything
together. That That's right. It was
really a green field.
>> [snorts]
>> Uh which is why I say we're we're sort
of enabling, not disruptive. Um and the
truth is that, you know, we're still
scratching the surface. I mean, it you
know, BCG does a report every year and
they look at global wealth.
So, last year late in December, they put
out a report that said there's 153
trillion dollars
in wealth owned by individuals, okay?
That That's a huge number. It It rivals
the size of the institutional market.
Um so, there is a massive number of
dollars that today, you know, in the US,
I think the estimates are something like
two two and a half percent allocated to
alts. Outside the United States, it's
even less. There's a significant amount
of wealth that is going to be looking to
build even more sophisticated
portfolios. So, tools, technology, AI,
tokenization, all of these things have
to evolve to create a great experience
for advisors and clients to make the
best decisions they can in in the asset
allocation world.
>> Huh, really interesting. So So, let's
stay with technology and innovation. You
guys have built a number of fairly
innovative technologies. You've bought,
you've partnered. What is the calculus
like? How do you decide whether you're
going to buy something, build something,
or just partner with a provider in the
space to to build out the platform? Uh
it's a combination of things. It's It's
time to market. It's culture. You know,
everything that we have purchased, we've
made 24 acquisitions.
Um everything that we've purchased,
we've integrated. And And to me, that's
really important because if the goal is
to provide an integrated solution for
advisors and GPs, if you don't integrate
the things you buy,
you're not really doing that. Point one.
And point two,
if if the people who join aren't
integrated, then it doesn't work either,
right? It's not just about technology.
It's actually more about the people.
And so, spending a lot of time on
culture and trying to figure out how do
you bring things together? How do you
create what I often refer to as one I
capital is really critical. And I would
say
as as as time has evolved, um you know,
I I was always very focused on culture
from the very start when we were a
couple of people, um it's even more
important than ever and it probably
continues to to to to occupy a very
significant percentage of my time and
trying to get people working together,
put people in the right seats for them
to be successful, um and creating simple
ideas that people can rally around.
I mentioned this earlier. Clients come
first. What is it we need to do to help
our clients succeed? And everything we
do we have to do together. Those two
things are really unifying to our
culture. So, you guys did a big capital
raise in 2025
uh that valued you at a pretty
substantial multi-billion dollar
um level.
What are you looking at for further
raises? How are you deploying that sort
of capital? Is it just build, build,
build then eventually you become the the
biggest player in the space? So, we've
made we've we've announced a couple of
acquisitions since then. We we we're
about to close our acquisition of
Hexure. Mhm. Hexure provides an e-app
for annuities. So, as I mentioned
before, kind of the complete verticals.
So, that helps us complete our annuities
vertical.
Um so, M&A will continue to be, you
know, important sort of use of cash. Um
and we continue to sort of actively look
at what's out there. Uh, we continue to
grow organically, but the the the model
is self-financing.
So, we don't need outside capital to run
our business.
Um, I am a believer though, when you
think about we talked about the duration
of these assets, when we talk to
financial advisors, financial advisors
have to know that we're financed to be
around for a long a long time. And so,
we we've tried to finance ourselves in a
way that our our partners can look at us
and say, "They're going to be here to
support me." And so, a lot of it is just
making sure we have a strong balance
sheet to support our clients. It's
always interesting when we see these big
private, um, entities go public
in the alternative and private space.
How How do you think about that? How do
you think about, you know, the the
Blackstones and and Carlyles of the
world and Apollos and whoever else?
Well, look, I I think, you know, go
going public allows firms to to have
access to capital, to have, you know,
growth, you know, leverage their growth,
um, provide sort of secondary markets,
if you will, for employees and and other
investors.
Um, you know, I think, you know, for us,
we spend very little time actually
thinking about that other than wanting
to make sure we run the company with a
discipline of a public company.
>> Mhm. We we get our quarterly reports
turned around our our our monthly
reports by the second day of every
month, quarterly reports by the third
day of of the new quarter. Um, and we we
turn the the year-end results in a in a
fast period of time as well. And so, you
know, public
the
process of being public creates some
disciplines that we want to make sure we
have.
But but it's not, you know, it's it's
not something we're that focused on.
There There's There's There's two sides
to every coin.
>> Mhm. You know, when you when you go
public and the stock is going up,
everyone's really excited and everyone's
really happy.
When you go public and you have massive
corrections, which we live through
pretty regularly, I'd say, and the stock
goes down, now you've got to deal with
the opposite of motivation. There's
concern and so forth. And so, you've got
to make sure your employees aren't
staring at the
I was going to say Quotron, but only you
and I would know what that means.
>> I you know, it's so funny. I had a buddy
whose firm got bought by Yahoo in '96.
And he would was telling me in '99,
people just refreshing the screen
constantly. It's all they did. It's so I
think there's an element to it that's
super unproductive. So, that's why we're
we're in no rush to do that. You know,
we want to make sure, as I said, we have
a strong balance sheet, strong capital
structure. You know, equity is an
important part of our compensation for
everybody. You know, 100% of the
employees have stock at iCapital. To me,
that's a a big cultural point in terms
of bringing people together.
Um but but you need to if you're going
to provide that as part of someone's
compensation, there needs to be some
opportunity for people to get some
liquidity. So, over our our history,
we've provided four such opportunities
for people to get a little liquidity.
And as long as we stay private, we'll
continue to try to find a way. It's it's
limited, of course, but we try to find
way for people to get to get some
liquidity from their from their equity
holdings. Really interesting. So, so
let's talk about what's going on today.
Obviously, alts have been very hot for
the past 10 years or so, increasingly
so.
They've been in the news for other
reasons the past few months. But but
let's talk about the underlying
structural shift before we get to any of
the noisy stuff that's going on. How are
advisors and individuals changing the
way they access
um alternative structured investments,
annuities, any of the products on your
platform. Sure. So, I I think for the if
if I can maybe [snorts] make some
divisions by wealth, the wealthier
clients have tended to, you know, buy
the private funds, you know,
>> [snorts]
>> the perhaps they'll invest either
directly if they can make a $20 million
investment or if if not, you know, if
they're a million, 5 million, or
whatever, they usually come through a
vehicle that that we'll set up for them
to access, and then we aggregate that
capital, and we look like one large
investor to the institution, to the to
the GP.
Um so, the wealthier clients are tend to
invest through those private vehicles
across the board. Um and we we think
from a platform perspective,
the way you've got to build these
portfolios, you know, if you have a a a
credit and equity portfolio, debt and
equity portfolio, and you want to build
them or rebalance them,
you can do that with a few mouse clicks,
right? With all If you target an
allocation, it's 10 or 15 or 20%, you
got to build that. So, it's really
important that you allocate
that time.
>> time. You need to make sure that you
have sort of persistent access to
quality product across all the
strategies. So, equity, credit, real
estate, infrastructure, et cetera, uh
hedge funds, and so so, our platform
tries to provide that. Um but but that
wealthy individual will probably use
private funds to build it. For the
accredited investor, they'll probably
use the registered funds to be able to
build that, and they will either buy um
individual registered funds, or they
might buy registered funds wrapped
together. Um that's something that we're
seeing a lot of the market do today,
where they'll wrap three or four or five
different funds together to give people
an exposure to maybe it's equity, maybe
it's a growth-oriented uh product where
there's sort of a a buyout, a growth, a
venture kind of component, or maybe it's
a an income-oriented product where
you've got, you know, credit and real
estate, or maybe it's multi-asset where
you've got all of that sort of wrapped
together. Um we think there's lots of
different ways. Every individual has a
different set of needs and objectives.
And so we think it's really important
that there's a lot of flexibility in the
system so people can allocate precisely
what's important to a given client.
>> So what you're describing sounds
fundamentally different from how
portfolios used to be constructed. How
significant are these changes um
compared to I won't even mention the
'90s, but the 2010s?
Look, I I I think what's what's
happened, which is a good thing, is is
clients have access to more products to
potentially meet their needs. Doesn't
mean these products, by the way, are
right for everybody. They're probably
not right for a lot of people.
Um but for those that have the ability
to make these investments, the
willingness to tolerate the illiquidity
we talked about before,
these products provide more
opportunities to build the right
portfolio. You think about the public
markets, I mean, you spend a lot of time
thinking about them, I know.
Um you know, there are uh there are
probably 150,000
private companies with sort of EBITDA or
revenues greater than a hundred million
dollars. Like and there are 5,000, 4,000
public companies. There are the the
private markets are so much larger than
the public markets. As you know, the
public markets are increasingly
dominated by a small number of stocks.
And so accessing the private markets
gives you access to a much broader set
of possible investments. Again,
not right for everybody, but for those
who are looking to build, you know, more
involved portfolios, there's an
opportunity that the private markets
enable you to to pursue that you just
don't get by buying just stocks and
bonds.
>> So that's one compelling reason. You can
access companies you wouldn't get
otherwise. What are some of the Sell us
on the other reasons. Why else should an
investor and an advisor who is
alt-curious, why should they explore
this space? Well, look, I I'm decidedly
not trying to sell anybody on anything.
This is to be clear.
But I think, you know, it's like
anything else in life. You know, when
we're all better off when we have some
more choices. Now, by the way,
there's a way in which those choices can
be bucketed to make it easier for you to
go through that decision-making process.
But I think if you have more choices to
build a portfolio where you're seeking,
you know, longer-dated returns, you're
seeking more portfolio diversification,
these products provide you with more
flexibility to create a diverse
portfolio, potentially have a a
higher-returning portfolio.
But ultimately, you know, every person's
got to make a decision that that they
can they can live with the products. So,
so during the 2010s, we had 0% interest
rate, ZIRP and QE and all that fun Fed
stuff.
And I
think that's where private credit really
caught the attention of a lot of
investors and a lot of advisors. What do
you mean my bond portfolio is yielding
3% when All right, you're trading off a
little liquidity and you get 5, 6, 7,
8%. That's pretty attractive relative to
to the alternatives.
Okay, you got to deal with a K-1, which
nobody likes, but still
your accountant will will deal with it
for double the the yield you're getting
in in traditional
Treasuries or corporates.
How has that moved from just straight-up
credit
to private infrastructure, private
equity, private real estate? It seems
like that whole world has opened up
dramatically.
>> It it has. And you know, I would say
that a lot of the private credit uh
investments you could look at are
floating rate. Mhm. And so they still
can provide opportunities for, you know,
for excess return, real alpha
um because of the way they float. In
fact, it was interesting in, you know,
in the early part of the century coming
out of COVID of this decade, you know,
you had people, to your point, very
actively buying private credit. And then
when interest rates went up to like 5%,
some people were earning like 10 to 12%
on their private credit investments. And
so they were then looking not about
private credit versus public credit,
they were looking at private credit at
10 or 12% versus private equity. Mhm.
And and and it being shorter duration,
was that the right, you know, mix for
them? Um and then, you know, right now
we're seeing a lot more people focusing
on equity as well. But but you
definitely had a period of time where
private credit was was very, very
attractive. And I think where we sit
today, I think a lot of people are very
anxious to understand what the
underlying credit quality is in these
products. And I think, you know, there's
certainly disruptive forces from AI that
that we've talked about, um the industry
talks about every single day. Um it's
not clear to me that um it it's the the
existing portfolios are are are really
in in in bad shape. I actually think the
portfolios are likely in better shape
than people think. Um you know, I've
spent a lot of time trying to talk to
various managers of of both equity and
credit as to [snorts] what they're
seeing in terms of adoption. And while
everybody is working on how to implement
AI, it's not like existing software
vendors are seeing their businesses dry
up. That's not happening. And a lot of
those are the borrowers of of these
private credit assets. So,
um we'll we'll we'll need to get more
information over the next several
quarters on where we are with private
credit, but my guess is the portfolios
are in a lot better shape than people
think. So, so we could talk about um
navigating some of the headlines, but
you mentioned AI, and now I'm legally
obligated to ask you a question. Um
what what are the most meaningful
near-term applications of artificial
intelligence uh within the alternative
spaces? Is it administration and
workflow? Is it identifying better or
less great um funds? Is it all of the
back office? How do How is iCapital
using AI in in your business?
>> We're We're actually we have pilots
going on across what we do. So, if you
if you take our tech stack, there there
really two ways to think about it. One
of which is the tech we use to empower
clients and the the technology that
clients
um engage with, and the second is the
technology we use to run our business.
And there are big applications in both.
And to give a couple of applications,
when a manager comes to iCapital to
raise a fund, we we sort of build a sub
doc. AI can build that sub doc sub doc
for us very very quickly. Um when a
client comes to the site and wants to
uh they come to our marketplace and they
want to describe to us what they're
interested in, and they they hit
toggles, you know, etc. They go through
a few steps to kind of inform us what
they're interested in. AI can do that
really really quickly. Um there are a
number of ways the way we collect data.
Um one of the services we provide to
clients is we help uh advisors aggregate
client data because a client might have
held away data, you know, in lots of
different places that you want to
aggregate so you can present a holistic
picture to your client. Um how we get
that data, how we retrieve the data, how
we extract data from documents, and then
how we reassemble AI can help drive a
lot of that. So, that the applications
of AI
>> [snorts]
>> um are sort of significant across our
entire platform.
Huh, really really interesting. And
we've been dancing around some of the
negative headlines. How are you helping
advisors navigate that these days? For
for the most part, it's a relatively
small handful of companies. Everybody
knows their names.
Um but the cockroach theory has people
waiting for the next GFC to unroll. We
haven't really seen much like that.
>> Well, I I I I think this is
such a a smaller magnitude than the GFC.
I I I don't think that that we're
anywhere near those types of concerns.
You know, we're big believers in
communications. I made a point earlier
about how the ecosystem needs to work
together. It it really needs to work
together now Mhm. in terms of helping
people, you know, understand what's
happening. I think generally speaking
that the industry, and when I say the
industry, I mean the asset management
industry, has to be even more
transparent today than ever before. And
I think, by the way, that's a good thing
going forward. I think the the
alternative asset managers probably need
to be more
uh more disclosive, more transparent to
clients uh over time.
Um but I think the being out in front of
clients, helping them understand you
know, the landscape and what's going on
has been a big part of how we've spent a
lot of time. And one of the things we're
doing now is to help is try to bring the
organ- the organize the industry to get
people on the GP side working together.
I talked about transparency, getting
information, educational material, not
promotional material, but educational
material to try to help create again a
better and deeper level of understanding
about these products. So, I've been
hearing a little bit about convergence
lately between public and private
markets.
>> Yep. You're known
as dealing with the private side. Do you
ever see a day where private and public
both ends up on your platform
completely full wallet share, etc.? I I
I think for us, you know, we're really
focused on helping people have very
successful journeys with their private
investments, their structured notes,
annuities, etc. And so, I think the way
in which we will interact with the with
the public markets will be more around
these model portfolios I talked about
and collaborating and partnering with
the GPs and and other sort of more of
the public company people who either
provide models or have public company
public investments
and helping to create these model
packages for for investors to be able to
invest holistically in a portfolio. I
think that's probably how we'll play the
public space in in partnership and in
concert with people who are experts in
that area. Makes a lot of sense. Last
question before our speed round. Give
given all these major technological
shifts, what do you think is going to
help redefine asset management going
forward?
We talked about You mentioned
tokenization, we hear about blockchain,
AI, data analytics. What what's the next
big thing? By the way, I think the next
big thing is the is the
the deep implementation of those
technologies.
We're still scratching the surface.
Tokenization hasn't even hit private
markets in any meaningful way yet. AI,
same.
So, I think there's significant
application of those technologies that
will be will be meaningful. And I think
really for the for the financial
advisors this reminds me, you know, 10
years ago when when all the robo's were
coming out, you remember that? And there
was this big debate, robo advisors
versus human advisors.
And and I I I always thought that was a
false choice. I always thought the best
answer for clients was a great financial
advisor who leveraged technology to
create an incredible experience for
their clients. And I think the same is
true today. The best financial advisors
are going to not be afraid of
technology, they're going to adopt it
and they're going to embrace it to
create an incredible client experience.
Um and that's sort of how I think the
market will will evolve in a
constructive and positive way. All
right, so let let's jump into our speed
round. These are really just quick
answers so people kind of get uh a
flavor of who you are. Starting with who
are your mentors who who helped shape
your career? Boy, I I had a lot of
mentors growing up, you know, and and I
think I always try to watch people and
and see what they did. There were
several senior people at Goldman Sachs
that I learned learned things from. I
remember the the head of investment
banking once told me when I was like a a
young associate, he said the loneliest
job on the planet is the CEO's job. So
if you want to be a successful
investment banker, make a friend of the
CEO and be a sounding board and you'll
have a good career. That was pretty good
advice.
Um but I I I remember um
the other piece of advice I got from
another senior partner in in banking was
um you always have to be intellectually
honest.
And a lot of people are afraid to be
intellectually honest cuz they they're
they're calculating what's happening in
the room versus you know, being true to
what you think and saying it and and and
not being afraid to do that. And and
I've tried to
to to really do that in in in all the
things that I've done as I've as I've
grown in my career.
>> Huh, really really interesting. Uh what
are you reading these days? What are
some of your favorite books? I'm I'm
overwhelmed with with work reading right
now between you know, what we're doing
in our business and and client and
client stuff. I'm reading a lot of stuff
on AI that sort of if I were
to admit the the honest thing is is I
keep reading new AI books about you know
AI [snorts] and technology AI in
general.
There are a lot of
incredibly positive things about AI.
There are a lot of risks with AI
and and a couple of the books I've read
recently were were really focusing on
the risks around unemployment
around control and governance and when
you get to
natural intelligence when AI reaches
sort of human intelligence, what happens
then? So there's there's a really
exciting and bright side and there's
really a dark side that's going to need
a lot of governance to to protect all of
us. A lot of guardrails.
So if you don't have time to read, you
have time to listen to podcast or watch
anything? What are you what are you
streaming? One of the so that I'm
married 33 years and and honestly, you
know, the my wife and I are just binge
watching a series of shows. We've we've
gone through the whole Yellowstone saga,
you know, the prequels and Did you get
to Landman yet? Finished Landman, love
Landman, looking forward to watching the
Peaky Blinders movie which we haven't
seen. But I probably you know, when I
get home when I'm sort of when I put the
work down, my wife and I tend to watch
shows together. That that sounds fun.
Our final two questions, what sort of
advice would you give to a recent
college grad interested in a career in
alternatives or investing?
I would say you know,
the world owes you nothing. This is by
the way what I say I have several kids
you know, who are have graduated college
and and what I said to them and I'd say
to anyone at I Capital generally, the
world owes you nothing.
And what you get in this life is a
function of what you work for
and and I think that people need to be
flexible. They need to have an open
attitude. Um and and that to me, you
know, at at a given level of
intelligence,
you know, that's what attitude makes the
difference. Um you know, it's funny. We
we all went through this work from home
during COVID and now, you know, some
people want to continue to work
remotely.
Um and I when you asked about mentors,
like a lot of the mentorship that I got,
probably a lot of people got, was just
being in the office, watching people,
listening to people. How do they act?
How do they treat other people? You
know, how do they behave in meetings?
Like that's stuff that's super valuable
osmosis learning. You don't get when
you're sitting in your apartment on a
Zoom screen. There's Zoom screen is is
one-dimensional. Life is
multi-dimensional. And so, I'm a huge my
my Some people in the company love this,
some people don't, but I'm a huge work
from the office person because I believe
that that multi-dimensional experience
is much more powerful and it's better
for every individual from a learning
perspective. Yeah, I couldn't agree
more.
Um although I do love those Fridays from
home. No no doubt.
Um
and final question, what do you what do
you know about the world of alternatives
and investing and technology today might
have been useful back in the mid-1980s
when you were first getting started?
>> I I I think I think probably I'll
generalize that a little bit
is patience. Mhm. Um you know, I I was
sort of young and just, you know,
hard charging and so forth and and and
as a lot of us are. Um but you just you
have to be patient, you know, it's
funny. I I we sponsor golfers and and I
I I watch golf. I love golf. And you see
people they bogey holes. Jon Rahm won
the Masters a few years ago. He double
bogeyed the first hole. I remember I was
standing there watching it and I was
like, it's over. It wasn't over. It was
one hole.
And it reminds me my my youngest
daughter graduated Dartmouth a few years
ago and Roger Federer was the was the
speaker.
>> I recall that that that uh speech and it
was really amazing coming from him.
>> It was an amazing speech. And one of the
things he said is in his career
he's won
I may get the number slightly off. 80%
of his matches
and 54% of his points.
And and his point was it's just a point.
Right. You know, and I think that's a
huge lesson. It's just a point. It
happened. You lost it. You won it. You
lost it. You move on. I think that's
great advice and advice I wish I had had
when I was younger. Lawrence, this has
been absolutely fabulous. Thank you for
being so generous with your time. We
have been speaking with Lawrence
Calcano, CEO and chairman of ICapital.
If you enjoyed this conversation, well,
[music] check out any of the 650 we've
done over the past 12 years. You can
find those at iTunes, [music]
Apple, Spotify, Bloomberg, wherever you
get your favorite podcast. I would be
remiss if I didn't thank the crack team
that helps put these conversations
together each week. Alexis Noriega is my
video producer. Shawn Russo is my
researcher. [music]
Anna Luke is my podcast producer. I'm
Barry Ritholtz. You've been watching
Masters in Business [music]
on Bloomberg Radio.
>> [music]